Okay, what we wanna do in this video
is complete the coding assignment,
and we are going to refactor our IngredientService
to return back reactive types,
and show ya some tricks here.
So let's go in to it
and take a look at the implementation of this.
Now if I come back here, here's the implementation,
the findByRecipeIdAndIngredientId.
So if I come into this,
do a Mono.just, and that's gonna create a,
it's a little helper method
to return back a Mono.
So now, IntelliJ is giving us a warning
that we have type mismatch there,
so I come in and do an Alt + Enter on it,
and we can do a Cast, or we can say,
make that return.
So I'm gonna hit that and now we can see that it changed
and also, IntelliJ is smart enough
to change the interface as well.
So we're gonna do that for this next one here too,
again hitting Opt + Enter, and if you're on Windows,
I'm pretty sure it's a different keystroke,
and here we wanna do,
and again, we want to do that,
and now we can take a look here, and that is correct,
and down here, what we wanna do is return a void,
and in this case, we just wanna add on the return statement,
and the void is kind of a placeholder for the generics
and we're just gonna be returning null from a statement.
So now we have that, and it's still unhappy about something,
oop, missed this one.
So now we've updated the return types in our service
to go through everything, and I'm sure
the corresponding unit tests are now broken,
so let's go ahead and take a look at those,
and as expected, and we've got some incompatible types here.
So by calling the block, that gets the value out
of the Mono.
Oh, I'm sorry, we actually jumped to the Controller,
so to get the compile going, so, let's go ahead
and try this again.
Missed that there.
So I can see the refactoring here is fairly simple,
and I got to run the compile again
to see what else we missed.
Again, using the block, it's going to trigger it
as a subscriber to pull that value from the publisher
and remember, Mono is a publisher.
That is happy, so let's go ahead and run our tests.
You can see that all the tests passed;
let's make sure the whole test sweep is passing.
All right, we are good to go.
I'm going to bring up the application.
Make sure nothing is broken.
So we are up and this IngredientService,
and let's come back over here, and get to the root.
Make sure that we are still functional here,
and it looks like we are, oop, nope, we blew up.
So let's take a look, see what happened there.
So we are passing a Mono back.
So what's happening here is that we are passing a Mono,
so let's take a closer look at the Controller,
and the problem is that we passed that reactive type
so we do need some more tests here
so that that value is coming down,
and we're not getting the right value
so the recipe find by service,
now we have to come in here,
and that's the IngredientService is, I'm sorry,
So you can see here, and as I'm going through this
at everywhere, so we just change that one for the command,
so that was storing the type.
The problem with the compiler didn't pick this up for us
it's because we're adding in
and we're not adding a specific type into the map,
so we're just doing that addAttribute,
and also here on the delete,
we're gonna need to do a block to trigger it.
So now our Controller is now working
with the reactive types.
So let's go ahead and restart this.
Get a clean restart on Spring Boot;
make sure that it is up and running properly.
We are live.
Let's come back here and I can't just do a refresh here
because our id'se are gonna change every time, oop.
So let's go ahead and view, make sure we can Delete,
oop, no we blew up on that delete,
and I realize what I did wrong here,
is I'm blocking but in this method,
what I'm doing is I'm returning back a null,
and what I wanna actually do is Mono.empty(),
so that is going to return back a Mono void.
So now we'll actually get an object,
so it's returning back null, that was a mistake on my part.
So let's go ahead and restart this,
and make sure that we do have
all the Ingredient functionality again.
So we'll go in, do a View,
and a View over here to the Ingredients.
Let's go ahead and try to Delete one.
That is working.
Do a quick update, we'll just change the UOM,
so that is working.
So now our IngredientController,
we went through the various functionality for the View,
Update, and Delete, so that is all working,
we know we're not blowing up anywhere.
You did see me run into a couple problems
as I was going through this.
To be honest, the reactive stuff is fairly new
to the marketplace.
I'm a little bit green working with it myself,
haven't been working with it for over a decade,
so this stuff is new to me too,
so I know you guys are gonna be having some trouble with it.
If I'm having a little trouble, I'm sure you guys will,
so don't be embarrassed by it, don't feel bad about it,
it's a very, very new technology but,
so it's gonna take, it's a definitely
a different programming paradigm,
so it's gonna take a little bit of getting used to
but I'm sure we will definitely get used to it here
and move forward, because this reactive stuff
is actually really cool.
I like working with it so far.
Okay, we have one more thing to do,
and that is to refactor to the active repositories
in our IngredientService.
So I almost forgot to do that
but realized that we still need to do that,
so I'm gonna jump over to IntelliJ
and do that refactoring now.
So, let's see here.
We got a couple of repositories here,
so let's take all these to active repositories,
and of course this is gonna break a few things.
Now we can see that we refactored the build here,
so we do have a couple things here
that we need to look at.
So we're gonna do an Optional here.
Okay, I'm looking over the code
and there's some significant refactoring
that we wanna do.
What I'm gonna do here is
I'm gonna pause the video for a moment.
I'm gonna do the refactoring,
so we don't have to stumble through this live,
and then we'll go through exactly what I refactored,
because right now, we're setup more in a blocking sense,
and we need to set this up to leverage the stream.
So I'm gonna do that right now, pause the video,
and I will be right back.
Okay, I've gone ahead and refactored for a reactive model
and actually learned a little bit along the way.
So, probably the most significant reactive refactoring
is where we're able to find the recipe or the ingredient
by the recipe Ingredient Id.
This is a little tricky here but this is all reactive here.
It's on line 50.
We go to the reactive repository and we do a findById,
and it's actually kind of interesting here so.
So that's gonna return back a Mono of the Recipe,
but we don't want the Recipe,
we wanna find an Ingredient which is in a Set
on the Recipe object.
So, the next thing that we're gonna do here
is on line's 51 to 54, we are gonna go
and look at the ingredients and go through there
and filter it based on that ingredientId.
Then we have a filter and Optional::isPresent,
there on line 55, so that is saying if we get a hit,
continue on, and then at line 56,
we are going to map that Ingredient.
A map is basically a transform operation,
and remember we had to enhance it with the recipeId,
before so, now we're gonna return back that command,
and you can see we have this reactive code there
on 50 to 60, and on lines 50 to 60,
and all the code down below it is what that is replacing.
So that is the ingredient (mumbles) find.
Now the updates, the save and delete,
I wanna show you something with the delete here.
So this is actually kind of a interesting behavior,
and you'll see that I have both in here,
because what I wanna do is I wanna to run this
inside the debugger.
Go ahead and restart it,
and found a interesting behavior,
I'm gonna show you what's happening.
Come over here,
and I actually need to stop this,
and run it inside the debugger.
So we're gonna bring it up in the debugger now,
and what I wanna show you
is what happens when we come out of the reactive repository
versus the blocking repository.
So I'm going to come over here, and do a refresh,
oop, get that URL right,
and let's go in here, View, to View,
and if I come in and go to Delete an ingredient,
I get to the breakpoint, and the recipeReactive,
let's first look at the recipe.
Remember, we have the ingredients, and on the ingredient
is a reference, a DB reference to the UnitOfMeasure,
and we can see that we have the id and description there.
Problem is, on the reactive version, we go into ingredients,
the id and description are null,
so it's kind of a strange behavior,
because we are getting a list of,
uom property there,
but, nothing's there, so what's happening
is I had to do a little research on this,
and it turns out that the reactive driver for MongoDB
does not support DBRefs.
So you could see there's a issue here
and Mark Paluch here says that the ReactiveStreams driver
does not support DBRef.
So, and then, Oliver, Oliver's a rockstar
when it comes to Spring Data,
he's saying that DBRefs are not recommended
by the Mongo guys themselves,
so the suggested alternatives to store IDs
and then load the related data on that,
and in hindsight, that probably would work for our model.
I was trying to keep it close to a JPA like model
as we would transition through it,
but that's probably a little bit better
because we're just using those references,
so we probably could easily do that,
and I think I'm gonna refactor the project for that
in a future video,
but for now, that's what's happening here,
is that we have this,
and I'm going to go ahead and delete
the reactive reference here
before I check in the code,
but I wanted you to understand what was going on there.
So we still have to block on the delete,
because we're doing some logic there.
So not a lot of refactoring there,
and then also on the save,
we are also doing some blocking operations there
just because of the logic that we had to put in there.
So, you can see that there's a few things
that we have to work on there.
So I'm gonna refactor some of this, going forward,
so we'll get a little cleaner model,
and just as reference, what's going on there
is we have the Ingredient as this @DBRef,
so what we'll do is we'll change this,
we'll refactor the data model, not via a DBRef,
but to actually be that object with the ID in it.
So we'll store the whole thing without a DBRef,
and that's what's breaking the reactive driver.
So like I said, in a future video,
we will go ahead and refactor the database, the data model,
so that we can leverage that without using a DBRef
and work with the ReactiveMongo
database driver more smoothly.